---
epic: AS-11704
story: AS-13605
team: Cloud Integrations
---

# GCP AEC Reports

- GCP IAM Report Development @samantha.wabi {AEC}
  This is an overarching ticket that encompasses requirements for building the GCP IAM Report for AEC
  Make sure to discuss the tables with Luke. 
  - Create GCP organizations table {AEC} {Data} +3
    A service account is a special Google account that belongs to an application or a VM, instead of to an individual end-user. The application uses the service account to call the service's Google API so that users aren't directly involved.    
  - Create GCP projects table {AEC} {Data} +3
  Service accounts represent service-level security of the Resources (application or a VM) which can be determined by the roles assigned to it. Enrolling ServiceAccount with Admin rights gives full access to an assigned application or a VM. A ServiceAccount Access holder can perform critical actions like delete, update change settings, etc. without user intervention. For this reason, it's recommended that service accounts not have Admin rights. 
  - Create GCP Service Accounts table {AEC} {Data} +3
    A service account is a special Google account that belongs to an application or a VM, instead of to an individual end-user. The application uses the service account to call the service's Google API so that users aren't directly involved.  
  - Create GCP Service Account Policy table {AEC} {Data} +3
    Service accounts represent service-level security of the Resources (application or a VM) which can be determined by the roles assigned to it. Enrolling ServiceAccount with Admin rights gives full access to an assigned application or a VM. A ServiceAccount Access holder can perform critical actions like delete, update change settings, etc. without user intervention. For this reason, it's recommended that service accounts not have Admin rights.
  - Create GCP Virtual Machines table {AEC} {Data} +3
    It is recommended to use Instance specific SSH key(s) instead of using common/shared project-wide SSH key(s) to access Instances.

    Enabling OS login binds SSH certificates to IAM users and facilitates effective SSH certificate management.
  - Create GCP Virtual Machine Service Accounts table {AEC} {Data} +3
    The default Compute Engine service account has the Editor role on the project, which allows read and write access to most Google Cloud Services. To defend against privilege escalations if your VM is compromised and prevent an attacker from gaining access to all of your project, it is recommended to not use the default Compute Engine service account. Instead, you should create a new service account and assigning only the permissions needed by your instance.
  - Create GCP Custom Roles table {AEC} {Data} +3
  - Create GCP Folders table {AEC} {Data} +3
  - Create GCP Role Bindings table {AEC} {Data} +3
  - Create GCP Users table {AEC} {Data} +3
- GCP Key Management Report @samantha.wabi {AEC}
  This is an overarching ticket that encompasses requirements for the GCP Key Management Report.
  - Create GCP Service Account Keys table {AEC} {Data} +3
    Anyone who has access to the keys will be able to access resources through the service account. GCP-managed keys are used by Cloud Platform services such as App Engine and Compute Engine. These keys cannot be downloaded. Google will keep the keys and automatically rotate them on an approximately weekly basis. User-managed keys are created, downloadable, and managed by users. They expire 10 years from creation.
  - Create GCP Cloud KMS Cryptokeys {AEC} {Data} +3
    Set a key rotation period and starting time. A key can be created with a specified rotation period, which is the time between when new key versions are generated automatically. A key can also be created with a specified next rotation time. A key is a named object representing a cryptographic key used for a specific purpose. The key material, the actual bits used for encryption, can change over time as new key versions are created.  

    A key is used to protect some corpus of data. A collection of files could be encrypted with the same key and people with decrypt permissions on that key would be able to decrypt those files. Therefore, it's necessary to make sure the rotation period is set to a specific time. 
- GCP Database and Storage Report @samantha.wabi {AEC}
  This is an overarching ticket that encompasses requirements for the GCP Database and Storage Report.
  - Create GCP Cloud SQL Databases table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of all Cloud SQL Databases across the MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL server instances within the connected GCP Project. It is recommended that all Cloud SQL Databases require SSL encryption, have automated backups enabled, and are not publicly exposed to the internet. GCP Cloud SQL Databases enforce encryption at rest by default and the setting cannot be changed. 
  - Create GCP Cloud Storage table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of Cloud Storage buckets within a connected GCP Project. It is recommended that Cloud Storage buckets not be left Anonymously or Publicly exposed. GCP Cloud Storage buckets enforce encryption at rest by default and the setting cannot be changed. 
  - Create GCP Database Flags table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of database flags that are set within the MySQL, PostgeSQL, and SQL Server Cloud SQL databases. Cloud SQL is a fully-managed database service that helps you set up, maintain, manage, and administer your relational databases on Google Cloud Platform. You use database flags in Cloud SQL for many operations, including adjusting SQL Server parameters, adjusting options, and configuring and tuning an instance. The GCP CIS Benchmark publication recommends a variety of database flags that should be set for each instance. 
- GCP Networking Rreport @samantha.wabi {AEC}
  This is an overarching ticket that encompasses requirements for the GCP Database and Storage Report.
  - Create GCP VPC Networks Table {AEC} {Data} +3 
    This table shows the list of VPC Networks within the connected GCP project. A VPC network is a global resource that consists of a list of regional virtual subnetworks (subnets) in data centers, all connected by a global wide area network. VPC networks are logically isolated from each other in Google Cloud. 
  - Create GCP VPC Network Firewall Rules {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of firewall rules for every VPC Network within the connected GCP project. These rules apply to outgoing (egress) traffic from instances and incoming (ingress) traffic to instances in the network. Egress and ingress traffic flows are controlled even if the traffic stays within the network (for example, instance-to-instance communication). For an instance to have outgoing Internet access, the network must have a valid Internet gateway route or custom route whose destination IP is specified.  

    This route simply defines the path to the Internet, to avoid the most general (0.0.0.0/0) destination IP Range specified from the Internet through SSH with the default Port 22 or RDP with the default Port 3389. Generic access from the Internet to a specific IP Range should be restricted. Unless there is a business need where SSH access is required from outside of the network to access resources associated with the VPC. In that case, specific source IP(s) should be mentioned in firewall rules to white-list access to SSH port or RDP port for the concerned VPC(s). 
  - Create GCP VPC Subnets table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of VPC subnets within the connected GCP project. Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) networks are global resources. Each VPC network consists of one or more IP address range called subnets. Subnets are regional resources, and have IP address ranges associated with them. It is recommended that VPC Flow Logs are enabled for every VPC subnet. 
  - Create GCP Virtual Machines table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of Virtual Machines within the connected GCP project. A virtual machine (VM) is a digital version of a physical computer. Virtual machine software can run programs and operating systems, store data, connect to networks, and do other computing functions, and requires maintenance such as updates and system monitoring. It is recommended that these Vitrual Machines disable connections to serial ports and IP forwarding. 
- GCP Systems Inventory Report @samantha.wabi {AEC} 
  This is an overarching ticket that encompasses requirements for the GCP Systems Inventory Report.
  - Create GCP API's table {AEC} {Data} +3
  This table shows all the API’s that are enabled or disabled for the connected GCP project. It is recommended that the Cloud Asset Inventory API be enabled so that all services and resources that are used for the GCP project can be tracked. 
  - Create GCP Cloud Asset Inventory table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows all services and resources deployed across the connected GCP project. It is recommended that an up-to-date inventory of all technology assets with the potential to store or process information be maintained. 
- GCP Logging and Monitoring Report (non-MVP) @samantha.wabi {AEC}
  This is an overarching ticket that encompasses requirements for the GCP Logging and Monitoring Report.
  - Create GCP Service Log Settings Report table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table shows the list of services within a connected GCP project and their associated log settings. It is recommended that Cloud Audit Logging be configured to track all admin activities and read, write access to user data across all services. 
  - Create GCP Log Router Sinks table {AEC} {Data} +3
    Log entries are held in Cloud Logging. To aggregate logs, export them to a SIEM. To keep them longer, it is recommended to set up a log sink. Exporting involves writing a filter that selects the log entries to export, and choosing a destination in Cloud Storage, BigQuery,or Cloud Pub/Sub. The filter and destination are held in an object called a sink. To ensure all log entries are exported to sinks, ensure that there is no filter configured for a sink. Sinks can be created in projects, organizations, folders, and billing accounts. 
  - Create GCP Log Metrics table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table will show all the log metrics that have been set by the user for the GCP Project. The user of this report will be able to validate if log metrics have been set according to best practices that are detailed in the GCP CIS Benchmark publication. Best practices include logging for user permission changes critical configuration changes. 
  - Create GCP DNS Logging table {AEC} {Data} +3
    Security monitoring and forensics cannot depend solely on IP addresses from VPC flow logs, especially when considering the dynamic IP usage of cloud resources, HTTP virtual host routing, and other technology that can obscure the DNS name used by a client from the IP address. Monitoring of Cloud DNS logs provides visibility to DNS names requested by the clients within the VPC. These logs can be monitored for anomalous domain names, evaluated against threat intelligence, and Note: For full capture of DNS, firewall must block egress UDP/53 (DNS) and TCP/443 (DNS over HTTPS) to prevent client from using external DNS name server for resolution. 
  - Create GCP Monitoring Alert Policies table {AEC} {Data} +3
    This table will show all the alerts that have been set by the user for the GCP Project. The user of this report will be able to validate if alerts have been set for the log metrics identified in the Log Metrics table. It is recommended that an alert be set for all Log Metrics within the Log Metrics table. 